Sausage Potato Kale Pie

Ingredients

    12 ounces ground sausage
    6-8 eggs
    ½ cup milk
    1½ teaspoons Herbes de Provence
    salt and pepper to taste
    1 pound raw shredded potatoes (shred your own potatoes or just buy refrigerated uncooked hashbrowns)
    1 cup shredded cheese (I used Gruyère and highly recommend it)
    2 cups shredded kale (you can sub other veggies or just omit it for an equally delicious combo)

Instructions

    Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line a pie pan with parchment paper.
    Brown the sausage until completely cooked and crumbled. Remove from heat and let cool slightly.
    Whisk the eggs, milk, herbes de provence, and salt and pepper.
    Add the hash browns, ⅔ cup cheese, kale, and sausage from step one. Mix until combined.
    Transfer to the pie pan and top with remaining cheese. Cover loosely with foil and bake for 30 minutes or until set (bake longer if you're using shredded potatoes - hash browns will bake faster). Remove foil, turn heat to 400 or 450, and bake an additional 10 minutes until golden brown on top. Let stand for 10 minutes to allow excess moisture absorb. Cut into slices and serve.

Notes
I used 6 eggs in this particular version but I've used as many as 8 before. If you want more of a sturdy, almost fritatta-like texture, go for 8. Otherwise 6 should be enough!

Be aware that the veggies will weep moisture, so you may have a little extra moisture in the bottom of the pan and that's normal. If you don't want that, then I would suggest omitting the kale or any other veggies.


Chopped Thai Salad with Sesame Garlic Dressing (Power Salad)

Ingredients
For the dressing:

    ⅓ cup canola oil
    3 cloves garlic, peeled
    3 tablespoons low sodium soy sauce
    2 tablespoons water
    2 tablespoons white distilled vinegar
    2 tablespoons honey
    1 tablespoon sesame oil
    1 tablespoon lemongrass paste (ginger would also work)
    a squeeze of lime juice

For the salad:

    16 ounces frozen shelled edamame
    5-6 cups baby kale
    3 large carrots
    2 bell peppers (1 red, 1 yellow)
    1 cup cilantro leaves
    3 green onions
    ¾ cup cashews (if you can find them, Trader Joe's Thai Lime and Chili Cashews are the bomb)

Instructions

    Puree all the dressing ingredients in a food processor until smooth. Taste and adjust to fit your preferences. Transfer to a dressing jar and rinse the food processor out for use later.
    Cook the edamame by boiling it for 3-5 minutes in a pot of boiling water. Drain and allow it to cool. Meanwhile, slice up the kale, carrots, peppers, cilantro leaves, and green onions into thin strips or shreds.
    Place the cooked edamame in the food processor and pulse 5 times to get a minced texture. Transfer to a bowl and repeat the same process for the cashews. Toss the kale, carrots, peppers, cilantro, green onions, edamame, and cashews together until well combined. Drizzle with the dressing, toss gently a few times, and serve immediately.

Notes
The salad will stay fresh longer if you store the dressing separately from the salad ingredients, tossing them together just before serving.

Agave nectar or sugar would work in place of the honey for vegans.

Those 3 cloves of garlic pack a spicy garlicky punch, so if you don't love garlic, use less.

Thai Pineapple Fried Rice

Thai-style sweet and spicy pineapple fried rice with red bell pepper, cashews and cilantro. This is a healthy and quick, vegetarian weeknight dinner! This dish comes together very quickly, so be sure to have your ingredients prepped and located near the stove before you start cooking. Chilled leftover rice works best in stir fries because it doesn't clump together, so cook the rice in advance if time allows (one cup dry rice will yield slightly over two cups cooked rice.) Yields 2 large, restaurant-sized portions or 4 more modest portions.
Ingredients

    2 tablespoons coconut oil or quality vegetable oil, divided
    2 eggs, beaten with a dash of salt
    1½ cups chopped fresh pineapple
    1 large red bell pepper, diced (about ¾ cup diced)
    ½ bunch green onions, green and white parts, thinly sliced (about ½ cup)
    2 cloves garlic, pressed or minced
    ½ cup chopped raw, unsalted cashews
    2 cups cooked and chilled brown rice, preferably long-grain brown jasmine rice
    1 tablespoon reduced-sodium tamari or soy sauce
    1 to 2 teaspoons chili garlic sauce or sriracha
    1 small lime, halved
    Season with salt, to taste
    Handful fresh cilantro leaves, chopped, for garnishing

Instructions

    Heat a large wok, cast iron skillet or non-stick frying pan over medium-high heat and place an empty serving bowl nearby. Once the pan is hot enough that a drop of water sizzles on contact, add 1 teaspoon oil. Pour in the eggs and cook, stirring occasionally, until the eggs are scrambled and lightly set. Transfer the eggs to the empty bowl. Wipe out the pan if necessary with a paper towel (be careful, it's hot!).
    Add one tablespoon of oil to the pan and add the pineapple and red pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, until the liquid has evaporated and the pineapple is caramelized on the edges, about 3 to 5 minutes. Then add the green onion and garlic. Cook, while stirring constantly, until fragrant, about 30 seconds or longer. Transfer the contents of the pan to your bowl of eggs.
    Add the remaining two teaspoons of oil to the pan. Pour in the cashew and cook, stirring constantly, until the cashews smell fragrant, about 30 seconds. Add the rice to the pan and stir to combine. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the rice is hot, about 3 minutes.
    Pour the contents of the bowl back into the pan and stir to combine. Once the contents are warmed through, remove the pan from heat. Add 1 tablespoon tamari (or soy sauce) and chili garlic sauce or sriracha, to taste. Squeeze the juice of ½ of a lime over the dish and stir to combine. Season to taste with salt. Transfer to individual serving bowls and garnish with a sprinkling of torn cilantro leaves, with jars of chili garlic sauce or sriracha on the side.

PCC Chili Con Carne
Ingredients

    1/2 pound lean ground beef
    1 tablespoon olive oil
    1/2 yellow onion, diced
    2 ribs celery, diced
    2 medium carrots, diced
    1/2 green bell pepper, chopped
    3/4 teaspoon dried oregano
    1 tablespoon minced garlic
    Salt and pepper, to taste
    Pinch of crushed red pepper flakes
    1 1/2 teaspoons chili powder
    1 (12-ounce) can crushed tomatoes
    1 (12-ounce) can diced tomatoes
    1 (12-ounce) can kidney beans, rinsed and drained
    1/2 cup water, or as needed
    1 cup tomato sauce
    2 tablespoons red wine

Preparation

In a large soup pot, sauté ground beef in oil over medium heat until lightly browned and cooked through, about 10 minutes.

Add onion, celery, carrots, green pepper, oregano, garlic, salt, pepper, red pepper flakes and chili powder. Cook until veggies are soft, about 8 minutes.

Add tomatoes, kidney beans, water, tomato sauce and red wine. Bring to a simmer until heated through. Adjust salt to taste.

PCC Perfect Protein Salad
Ingredients
Salad:

    1 cup spelt berries
    3 cups water
    1 (25-ounce) can garbanzos
    1 English cucumber - peeled, seeded and diced
    1 green bell pepper, seeds removed and diced
    3 stalks (about 1/3 pound) celery, diced
    1 carrot, peeled and diced (about 1 cup)
    1/4 red onion, diced
    1/2 bunch green onions, diagonally sliced
    1/3 bunch parsley, chopped

Dressing:

    1/2 cup mayonnaise (or vegan mayonnaise)
    2 tablespoons lemon juice
    2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
    1 teaspoon dried dill
    1 teaspoon salt
    1 teaspoon dried basil
    1 teaspoon minced garlic

Preparation

Boil spelt berries in water until tender, about 45 minutes. Drain and cool.

In a salad, bowl mix together cooked spelt, garbanzo beans, diced cucumber, green pepper, celery, carrots, red onion, green onion and chopped parsley.

Mix together dressing and pour over salad, mixing well.

Sausage and Spinach Penne Skillet
Ingredients

    1 tablespoon olive oil
    1 pound Italian-style turkey sausage, casings removed (I couldn’t find turkey sausage so I substituted mild pork sausage)
    3 medium garlic cloves, minced finely
    3 1/2 cups water
    2 1/2 cups low-sodium chicken broth
    1/2 cup oil-packed sun-dried tomatoes, rinsed and chopped fine
    1/2 teaspoon salt
    12 ounces (about 3 1/2 cups) penne pasta
    1 (6-ounce) bag baby spinach
    3/4 cup grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 cup toasted pine nuts

Directions

    Heat the oil in a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium heat until hot and add in the sausage. Cook until lightly browned and no longer pink about 5 minutes. Stir in the garlic and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds.
    Stir in the water, broth, sun-dried tomatoes, and 1/2 teaspoon salt, then add in the pasta. Increase the heat to medium-high and cook at a strong simmer, stirring often, until the pasta is tender and the liquid has thickened, about 15-18 minutes (if you find the liquid is absorbing too quickly and the pasta is still undercooked, add a bit more water in small amounts until the pasta is cooked thoroughly).
    Stir in the spinach, a handful at at ime, and cook until wilted. Off the heat, stir in the cheese and pine nuts. Season with salt and pepper to taste adn serve immediately.

Chopped Thai Chicken Salad
Ingredients
Salad

    2 boneless skinless chicken breasts
    1 small head green or white cabbage (2 cups shredded)
    1 large carrot (1½ cups shredded)
    1 green papaya (1½ cups shredded)
    ½ cup fresh cilantro
    ½ cup green onions
    ½ cup chopped peanuts

Dressing

    2 cloves garlic
    3 bird's eye chili peppers (sub ½ teaspoon minced hot pepper)
    2 tablespoons soy sauce
    2 tablespoons vinegar
    2 tablespoons sugar
    1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
    1 tablespoon oil
    ½ teaspoon fish sauce
    ¼ cup peanut butter
    ¼ cup water

Instructions

    Bring a large pot of water to boil. Add the chicken breasts, cover, and cook for 15-20 minutes. When the chicken is done, remove from heat, drain water, let cool, and shred with two forks.
    Chop the cabbage into very thin pieces, like it would be for coleslaw. I did this by rolling up several leaves together and making thin vertical slices across the roll and then chopping them once horizontally. Peel and grate the carrots. Cut off the skin, remove the seeds, and grate the papaya. Roughly chop the cilantro and green onions. Toss the chicken and vegetables in a large bowl and keep chilled.
    Mince the garlic and chili peppers. Place garlic and peppers in a small mixing bowl with the soy sauce, vinegar, sugar, lime juice, oil, and fish sauce. Whisk until smooth. Add the peanut butter and water and whisk again until smooth and creamy.
    Toss the salad with the dressing. Add the crushed peanuts. Serve chilled. Leftovers can be stored in the fridge for up to one day. For best results, keep the leftover salad and dressing separate until ready to serve.

Healthy Mexican Casserole with Roasted Corn and Peppers
Ingredients

    2 red bell peppers
    2 green bell peppers
    1 jalapeno or 2 chipotle peppers (optional - just for more kick)
    ½ red onion
    2 cups frozen corn
    2 teaspoons chili powder
    2 teaspoon cumin
    salt to taste (about 1 teaspoon is a good ballpark measure)
    2 cups Mexican cheese (mine was a Sargento blend)
    18-20 corn tortillas
    1 can refried beans
    2 cups red enchilada sauce
    cilantro, guacamole, or sour cream for topping

Instructions

    Pan-roast the veggies: Dice the peppers and mince the onions. Heat a large nonstick skillet with a little bit of oil over high heat (**note - I used to recommend using no oil, because that's what worked best for my with my Swiss Diamond nonstick pan, but several readers have ruined their own pans doing that so I am no longer recommending that!). Add the onion and peppers, sprinkle with chili and cumin, and stir, rest, stir, rest until you get a nice browning on the outside of the peppers. Remove and set aside. Repeat the roasting process with the corn, sprinkling with chili and cumin, removing from the heat when browned and roasted on the outside. Sprinkle the roasted veggies with a little bit of salt and toss to coat.
    Prep the ingredients: Grease a 9x13 inch baking pan and preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Cut the tortillas into thin strips. Put the refried beans in a bowl and mix with a little bit of water to make them easier to spread.
    Assemble: Spread a little bit of sauce on the bottom of the pan. Layer in order: half of the tortilla strips, ALL the beans, half of the veggies, half of the sauce, half of the cheese. Cover with the other half of the tortilla strips, veggies, sauce, and cheese.
    Bake: Cover with foil (I usually spray mine with cooking spray) and bake for 15-20 minutes, until the sauce is bubbling and the cheese is melted. Serve with guacamole, fresh cilantro, sour cream, or anything in the world that you want.

Chopped Thai Salad with Coconut Curry Dressing
Ingredients

    1 can low-fat coconut milk
    1/4 cup creamy peanut butter
    1 tablespoon yellow curry powder
    1 clove garlic
    juice of a lime
    1-2 teaspoons sriracha
    1 teaspoon kosher salt (or to taste)
    3 cups chopped kale
    2 cups chopped napa cabbage
    1 red bell pepper, chopped
    1 cup shredded carrots
    1 cup chopped mango
    1/2 cup chopped peanuts
    1/2 cup chopped cilantro

Instructions

    Place all ingredients in a blender (coconut milk through salt) and blend on high speed until very smooth. Place dressing in a saucepan, bring to a boil then simmer until reduced and thickened, about 10 minutes. Set aside to cool.
    Place remaining ingredients into a large bowl, toss with dressing and serve immediately.

Potato Leek Soup
Ingredients:

    2 tablespoons butter
    2 large leeks, whites and pale green parts only, sliced and rinsed well
    4 large Idaho potatoes, peeled and diced into cubes
    4 cups chicken stock
    1/2 cup heavy cream
    Salt and pepper to taste (I used white pepper)
    2 teaspoons white truffle oil (optional)
    Fresh chives for garnish (optional)

Directions:

    In a large pot with a lid, melt down your butter and add your leeks. Saute leeks until soft, about eight minutes.
    Add potatoes and stir together well. Add stock and bring to a boil. Once boiling, turn down heat to a simmer and cover pot.
    Continue cooking for 20-30 minutes (until potatoes are tender).
    Carefully blend soup in the blender (or use an emulsion blender) and puree to a desired consistency. Stir in the cream, salt and pepper to taste.
    If using white truffle oil, stir it in at the very end before serving. Garnish with fresh chives and serve with homemade croutons or crusty bread.

Salted Caramel Frosting
Salted Caramel Frosting

    1/2 cup (1 stick) salted butter
    1 cup packed dark brown sugar
    1/3 cup heavy cream
    1/4 tsp salt
    2-3 cups powdered sugar, sifted

Directions:

Start with the frosting: Melt the butter in a small saucepan over low heat. Once melted, add brown sugar and heavy cream. Stir constantly over medium heat until sugar is dissolved. Add salt. Allow to bubble for exactly 2 minutes. Remove from heat and allow to cool. Beat in powdered sugar 1 cup at a time, until you reach desired consistency.

Crustless Bacon and Leek Quiche
Ingredients:
Softened butter for the pie plate, about 2 t.
½ pound good bacon, diced
1 small leek, trimmed of its hairy and darker green fibrous ends, diced, and washed well
¼ pound Gruyere or Emmenthaler cheese, grated
1 medium bunch of fat asparagus spears, with their woody ends snapped off and washed
…
5 eggs
1 ½ c. heavy cream
a pinch of salt and pepper

Method:

    Increase your oven temperature to 400 degrees F, or heat a second oven to this temperature.

    Smear a little soft butter into the pie plate and up the sides.

    In a large skillet over medium heat, fry the bacon until it is tender crisp. Remove with a slotted spoon to a piece of foil or a paper plate. Wipe the bacon fat from the pan with some paper toweling.

    Add the leek to the same pan and sauté briefly until tender.

    Grate the cheese into the bottom of the pie plate.

    Scatter the bacon and then the leeks over the top.

    In a small bowl, beat together the egg and cream. Season it with a bit of salt and pepper.

    Pour the cream and egg mixture over the top of the bacon, leeks, and cheese.

    Arrange the asparagus spears over the top and nestle them into the egg and cream.

    Bake for 30 minutes, or until slightly puffed and golden.

Bacon and Brussel Sprout Salad
Ingredients

    1 lemon
    1 orange
    1 large shallot, minced
    ½ cup olive oil
    salt and pepper
    6 slices cooked bacon, crumbled or chopped
    4 dozen brussel sprouts
    1 cup almonds
    1 cup grated Pecorino-Romano cheese

Instructions

    Cook and crumble the bacon.
    Squeeze the juice of the lemon and orange into a large bowl with the shallots. Pour the oil into the bowl in a steady stream, whisking to form an emulsion (it should appear more creamy and less transparent). Season generously with salt and pepper. Refrigerate until ready to use.
    Using a mandoline, shave the brussel sprouts (not including the stems) into thin slices to make a shredded/slaw texture. I rinsed and dried mine again after shaving them just to be sure they were totally clean.
    Place the almonds in a food processor and pulse until chopped coarsely. Add ¾ of the almonds, cheese, and bacon to the shredded brussel sprouts; toss to combine. When ready to serve, toss with the dressing and sprinkle remaining almonds, cheese, and bacon over the top. If needed, add a few more tablespoons of olive oil and toss.


BBQ Chicken Salad
Ingredients

    1 tablespoon olive oil
    2 boneless, skinless thin-sliced chicken breasts
    Kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste
    6 cups chopped romaine lettuce
    1 Roma tomato, diced
    3/4 cup canned corn kernels, drained
    3/4 cup canned black beans, drained and rinsed
    1/4 cup diced red onion
    1/4 cup shredded Monterey Jack cheese
    1/2 cup shredded cheddar cheese
    1/4 cup Ranch dressing
    1/4 cup BBQ sauce
    1/4 cup tortilla strips

Instructions

    Heat olive oil in a medium skillet over medium high heat.
    Season chicken breasts with salt and pepper, to taste. Add to skillet and cook, flipping once, until cooked through, about 3-4 minutes per side. Let cool before dicing into bite-size pieces.
    To assemble the salad, place romaine lettuce in a large bowl; top with chicken, tomato, corn, beans, onion and cheeses. Pour Ranch dressing and BBQ sauce on top of the salad and gently toss to combine.
    Serve immediately, topped with tortilla strips.
